In this lesson, we'll configure the about page call to action section that we set up before with an
email opt in form connected to MailChimp.
You'll see how to set up a free MailChimp API key and connected to the form plugin to be able to collect
email addresses into the MailChimp broadcast email service by the end of this video.
You'll have a tool to grow an email list and send group emails like a newsletter or marketing emails,
all for free up to 2000 contacts.
Let's add an email opt in form to the about page in our sample site here with the 2022 theme.
If you remember on the about page down a little bit below, we had both the latest posts block pattern
and there was a block pattern that says join our mailing list and just has a divider line and an area
for an opt in form.
Over here on the right hand side.
And so we'll be talking about the three types of email used in WordPress and hosting WordPress websites.
One of those types is broadcast email, and what I'll do is just briefly show you how to set up your
free MailChimp account.
Grab the API key and then put it into the Fluent Forms Settings area and enable a subscribe field and
button here on the about page.
Now, MailChimp is a great way to go because it allows you to have up to 2000 contacts in their free
level, and so you can have a fully functional broadcast email system to up to 2000 contacts before
you begin getting charged for that service.
From MailChimp and so it's a great place to start out for your sites or your client sites.
So let's take a look at MailChimp, first of all.
Once you sign up and have your MailChimp account, you can click your profile name over here and click
Account.
And then on this account page under extras, you can click API keys that just gives you an API key that
you can create.
If you don't have any, it'll show you that you don't hear.
You can click Create a key, and that just creates a fresh API key that you can use for any purpose.
I like to create a separate API key for each website or each project that I'm working on and for this
one.
You know, I might go ahead and just set the name
of the website that I'm working on, but all you have to do is click the API key to highlight it and
click Control.
See to copy.
You can also hit right click and copy to do that and then back in the website here.
Even Fluent Forms comes with a subscription form as a an example of a subscription form that you can
use.
If you look at the subscription form by clicking Edit can see that all it is is an email address and
a subscribe button, and Flewitt Forms comes with a free connection to the MailChimp service, which
makes it really easy to set up a subscription button and a place where people can join your email list
and you can set this up easily for your clients.
It just makes it easy.
So first, before we set up the form itself, let's go to integration modules in fluent forms and you
can see that the MailChimp integration is part of their free plugin.
They also have one for Slack.
There's other integrations that are available in their Prosor service.
But if you just click the little toggle down at the bottom left of the MailChimp area, it just enables
it.
And then you can either click settings right here or you can go to global settings over here, and that
shows you the MailChimp Chimp integration button over here on the left hand side.
So if you click, MailChimp gives you a field to put your API key in there.
So I've already copied it, so I'll paste it in there and click Save Settings.
And then it's been verified and successfully set so I can close this little message and then I'll have
to do is simply go to my forms and then my subscription form, and I can edit that form for its look
and feel and whether I want to capture the first name, last name and other things.
You do have to set that up within MailChimp, but just the email address and the subscribe button is
what's enabled by default.
And then you need to go to settings and integrations and down here, marketing and CRM integrations.
And then you have to add the MailChimp feed integration so it will go connect to the API to MailChimp
and select which audience list that you want to use inside of your MailChimp list.
And then you can select things like what fields you want to collect and other settings over here, whether
you want to enable double opt in or not and other settings within MailChimp.
And so, you know you'd want to maybe select just the email fields.
Of course, this is just a sample for one of my client and my wife's website, Wild Food Girl.
And once I have that set, I can create the MailChimp feed and then the integration successfully saved
means that when I go back to the website here and when I enter.
My email address, then that formal work.
So one thing you can do as we did before is to just set up the look and feel a little bit.
I know that one thing that we had done is change it to a gray button.
Let's go ahead and make that a large button.
So I'll save this form.
I'll click the short code in order to copy it to the clipboard.
And let's go back to our website.
Let's look at it here.
So there's a button already existing over here, and I might just change out the forms.
Plug in is going to provide us with the Subscribe button, so we'll put that over here in this content
area on the right hand side.
So go back to the website and what we're going to do is edit the about page.
So go to all pages and let's go and click about or the edit button under the title there.
And then as we scroll down here, we're just basically editing the about page with the Block editor.
If I start to click, it could see what blocks are over here.
And let's see, look at the list for you to see what I have over here.
Looks like I've got a, you know, a heading.
There's a column over here and there's just a separator over here in the right side.
SHORTCODE block, there we go.
And I'll paste the shortcode in there.
And update, let's just see what it looks like on the front end for now.
Oh, great.
Watch birds from your inbox.
Join our mailing list.
And, you know, I don't want that to be a clickable button.
And really, I want to put like a heading over here above this email address and subscribe button.
So let's see.
I just go, Oops!
Go over to.
This, you know, I don't really need this button, I'm just going to remove, oops, I'm going to remove
the button and then over here, what I want to do is.
Let's get into the list of you again here instead of this, let's see.
Near this separator, I'm going to place.
Let's, uh, put a heading.
And let's have that say.
Join the mailing list.
I'm going to make that a little bit smaller, so it doesn't really conflict with here.
You know, you can style this anywhere you like.
Let's put that above the separator line and click Update.
Refresh the page.
Oh, great.
Watch birds from your inbox, you might put a little little image there might look good.
Yeah, let's go.
Oops!
And I want to add that that's remove the button again.
I'm just going to put a little image over here, so I still have a buttons block here.
Going, I remove the whole buttons block now in this column.
I'm going to go ahead and add an image.
Yes.
I see.
Here we go.
Now I want to add an image.
Let's go to the media library, and let's just add one, I said this hummingbird image.
Just doing the styles a little bit.
From now would be a square version of the image.
Maybe we move it up above.
I like it down below.
Of course, we could change it into kind of a, you know, a dual tone different color duo tone if we
want to.
Just another option for editing the image.
Yeah, you know, I'm going to make that into the medium sized, actually.
I mean, the large image over there and just fill up the area here.
Great.
Let's quick update.
Take a look at what that looks like.
All right, you know, I might take this title and span the entire area above so that this looks a little
bit better.
I'm just playing with the design here, which is of course, something that you can do.
See if I can bring this book up into the next column area like that.
There we go.
There was a line break right there in the heading.
So now it's looking like I want.
I think it's a take this and just see what it looks like.
There we go.
That's how it's looking.
All right, so now we have a great looking email opt in form provided by fluent forms and the MailChimp
service active on the website.
So let's go ahead and test it.
What?
Needs to be a valid email address.
Let's see what happens if it's not a valid e-mail address and I click Subscribe.
There's my error message tells me what's wrong with my email, so that's nice to know.
Click Subscribe.
Here's my new success message there.
If I go back here and refresh the page under this audience says there's been.
One more, one more contact.
And there I am, I've been subscribed.
Awesome.
That's how you set up to capture email addresses on an email list using MailChimp and style the form
using fluent forms, and let's get on to the next section.